## Q-01 Why Django should be used for web-development? Explain how you can create a project in Django?

- Django is a popular web development framework for building robust, scalable, and maintainable web applications.

- Django comes with a wide range of built-in features and modules for common web development tasks..

- Django follows best security practices. It provides built-in protection against common web vulnerabilities, including SQL injection, cross-site scripting (XSS), cross-site request forgery (CSRF), and clickjacking.

- Django is designed to scale with the growth of a project. Its modular structure and flexibility allow developers to adapt the application architecture to changing requirements easily.

### Create a project in Django :

1. **Install Django:**
   ```
   pip install django
   ```

2. **Create a Django Project:**
   ```
   django-admin startproject projectname
   ```

3. **Navigate to the Project Directory:**
   ```
   cd projectname
   ```

4. **Create a Django App:**
   ```
   python manage.py startapp appname
   ```

5. **Configure Database:**
   Update the `DATABASES` setting in the `settings.py` file to configure your database connection.

6. **Run Migrations:**
   ```
   python manage.py migrate
   ```

8. **Start the Development Server:**
   ```
   python manage.py runserver
   ```

- This command starts the development server, and you can access your Django project at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/` in your web browser.

- These are the basic steps to set up a Django project. From here, you can define models, create views, set up URL patterns, and build out the functionality of your web application.

